---
slug: intro-day1
title: Day 1 of Intro to Programming
author: Seamus Scanlon
tags: [Training, DotNet]
---

# Day 1 of Intro to Programming Class

### General Takeaways

Biggest takeaway from today was to be vigilant with the mute button (Day 2 update - anecdote about the programmer with build errors and a foul mouth especially relevant).

### .NET Takeaways and Potential Applications

Learned quite a bit about .NET. Researched the technology coming into the job but a formal lecture about it was very informative. I knew .NET Core was open source but I was unaware of why the two different versions existed and that the two versions had merged. All the applications I have written so far on the job have been .NET framework 4.7.2; until now I was unaware what the framework part of this meant. 

The existence of IL code did not come as a surprise to me after previously coding in Java and strongly reminded me of when I've coded in assembly. 

Converting the console app we created to an API was incredibly helpful for me. I've always felt a little shaky on APIs and seeing one coded from the ground up, despite its simplicity, makes the concept of APIs much less mysterious and anxiety-inducing. So far all I've written on the job are console apps but now that I've got my foot in the door writing APIs, I feel like I can make much more significant contributions to the team.

### Code Snippet

```csharp
using HelloWorld;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// do some configuration of the services
builder.Services.AddSingleton<DateUtils>();
var app = builder.Build();

app.MapGet("/break/{minutes}", (string minutes, DateUtils utils) =>
{
    return Results.Ok("Take a break for " + minutes + $" minutes! Return at {utils.TakeABreak(int.Parse(minutes))}");
});

app.Run(); // Blocking